---
layout: post #post
title: Salesforce #post title
categories: Salesforce #post category, seperated by spcace
tags: Salesforce #post tag, seperated by spcace
---

#### Intro of this blog
When I read and practiced on trail from :https://trailhead.salesforce.com/trails , I found many useful informations, so here are some notes I took from this website.

## Start
1. what salesforce is?
    1. CRM
    2. marketing --> sale cloud + service cloud 
    3. account-opportunity
              -case
              -contacts-->lead
        when a lead convert to opporituny, it also become an account
    6. ?? md L account case/accout contacts
    7. ?? lkp  look up contact-lead, we delete contact, lead still there, we delete lead, contacts still there
    <!--8. can not pull data unless-->
    <!--9. can not get lead,  -->
    
## Trail

#### Trail Plan
1. Quick start: Create the Trailblazer App -- salesforce classic
2. Quick start: Create a New Process on the Account Object -- lightening process builder
4. admin beginner
3. crm essentials
4. admin intermediate

##### 1. Quick start: Create the Trailblazer App -- salesforce classic
1. Intro: build an app, which helps you on your personal journey to your local park — by keeping track of the places you want to go and the things you want to see. When you complete this quick start, you’ll have a working app with its own menu, a tab, and a custom object that tracks the names of places you want to visit.
1. When we want to build an app on the salesforce platform, there is a bunch of built-in functionality, such as:
    1. Database to organize information
    2. Security for protecting data and defining access across your organization
    3. Business logic to carry out particular tasks under certain conditions
    4. User interface to expose data and functionality
    5. Highly customizable mobile app
    6. Native social environment that allows you to interact with people or data
    7. Analytics and dashboards for viewing your data in meaningful ways
    8. Multiple APIs to integrate with external systems
    9. Ability to install or create third-party apps
2. When you create an app, you automatically create a data object. In Salesforce, we call that data object a custom object.（sheet/table）
3. Custom object:
    1. A custom object comes with standard fields and screens that allow you to list, view, and edit information about the object
    2. you can also add your own fields to track or list just about anything you can think of.
4. When you create an app with App Cloud, you automatically create a mobile version of the app.
5. For mobile app, Quick Actions are things you want to do immediately from your mobile device. These actions live in a special place called the Publisher. You can customize the Publisher so that your most important actions are there at your fingertips.
6. Salesforce has two different user interfaces: Lightning Experience and Salesforce Classic
7. Standard fields(after create new waypoint, we can see):
    1. Feed — The Chatter feed is where you see things you're interested in, like people, records, and groups. You can customize the feed to see exactly what you want to follow.
    2. Details — The ‘tab’-Waypoint custom object has four fields, the Name (I created) and three fields generated by the system (Created By, Owner, Last Modified By). As you build out your app, you can add more fields to refine the things you want to track.
    3. Activities — Activities are tasks and events associated with this record. Tasks are to-do items, and events are meetings. We don't go into Activities in this quick start, but keep it in mind, because it's a handy and powerful feature that you'll love.

8. Steps:
    1. Add APP
    2. Fill in the form( Plural Lable: pl of Lable)
    3. Create --> go to My App
    4. Create items of a tab 
    5. Change the heart symbol: Setup --> Create --> Tabs --> Edit
    6. For mobile: 
        1. create quick action: create --> global actions --> global actions --> new action --> target object: your tab name( waypoint )
        2. add that Quick Action to the Publisher:  Create --> Global Actions --> Publisher Layouts --> drag(Remove action by dragging it up to the Global Layout area, add action by dragging it from the Global Layout and dropping it into the Global Publisher below.)
        3. /one/one.app

##### 2. Quick start: Create a New Process on the Account Object -- lightening process builder
1. Intro: Lightning Process Builder is a workflow tool that helps automate business processes without writing a single line of code. This quick start creates a new process that updates Contact records whenever the Account billing address changes
2. Process Builder allows you to choose not just fields on Accounts, but fields that are related to Accounts.
3. you could add multiple actions for one criteria.
8. Steps:
    1. Search builder and select process builder --> click new -->type name --> when start: a record changes --> save --> +add project
    2. Process Criteria： 
    3. Process Action: 

## 3. TRY TRAIL: Admin Beginner
##### 1. Salesforce Platform Basics
1. CRM : a place to store your customer data, processes to nurture and convert prospective customers, and ways to collaborate and engage
2. Salesforce is CRM, it also includes the platform, where customers and partners can use our suite of technologies to build amazing, connected apps.
3. Terminology
    1. Record: an item you are tracking in your database -- a row on the spreadsheet.
    2. Field: a place where you store a value, like a name or address -- a column on the spreadsheet.
    3. Object: a table in the database -- a tab on the spreadsheet
    4. Org: short for "Organization", the place where all your data, configuration, and customization lives -- your instance of Salesforce. you and your user log in to access it.
    5. Force.com: The suite of configuration tools and programming languages, and APIs native to Salesforce, including Apex and Visualforce
    6. App: A set of fields, objects, permissions, and functionality to support a business process. Not a thing you download onto your phone.
        1. example: if you’re having an event and you want people to sign in,  you could create an Event app in Salesforce. The process/entity becomes an object (‘Event’), and those columns become fields (‘Attendee Name’, ‘Title’, ‘Company’, ‘Email’) on the object.
        2. benefits:
            - Get real-time access to data as it’s entered, via mobile or desktop.
            - Create reports and dashboards to analyze attendees.
            - Send follow up emails to attendees after the event.
            - Relate attendees to marketing campaigns and sales information including order and purchase information.
            - Engage with attendees in a community.
            - Create automated processes to engage with the attendees over time.
            - Take advantage of instant scalability, instant mobile access, secure data storage and backups.
            - And much, much more
4. An example using platform:
    1. scenario:
    2. solution: create a custom field for preferred phone number, and add a new section on the page layout [1] just for phone numbers and your new custom field.
4. define declarative and programmatic development：
    1. Declarative refers to point-and-click functionality in Salesforce. It means that you can configure and customize Salesforce without writing code.
    2. Programmatic refers to code-driven functionality in Salesforce. It means that you can customize Salesforce using programmatic tools like Apex, Visualforce, and Lightning, and standard web technologies like JavaScript, CSS, and more.
5. the golden rule is to always try to build with clicks before going to code, as it is more sustainable and maintainable moving forward.
6. tips for identifying good processes to bring onto the platform
    1. reliance on spreadsheets
    2. Collaboration via email
    3. Documents shared on local file directories
    4. Time-intensive, manual steps
    5. Impact to a few departments maximum (just as you’re getting started; keeping your number of stakeholders to a minimum will help you make progress)
7. Architecture
    1. Trusted Multitenant Cloud:  
        1. protecting your data
        2.  Using standard functionality in Salesforce, you get a fine degree of security control over everything from user and client authentication, through administrative permissions to the data access and sharing model.
        3. advantage of a multitenant cloud: all of our customers, from small businesses to enterprise companies, are on the same code-base and all get the benefits of the same features, functionality, and automatic upgrades 3 times a year. (Salesforce’s upgrades are automatic and seamless)
        4. The cloud also means we can deliver Software as a Service (SaaS), which is important because it means you don’t have to install a program to use Salesforce. You just need an internet connection to log in.
    2. Scalable metadata platform: the structure of your Salesforce org
        1. imagine all of that data has just been exported. The structure is still there, but the data itself is gone. What you’d have left, that underlying structure, that is the metadata. It’s all of your standard and custom functionality, and all of your configuration and code.
        2. Salesforce’s SaaS model means we make the metadata immediately available for development, configuration
    3. fast app dev and customization: There is no installation of hardware and software, and there are standard options for defining security and user access, creating reports, and making the app social and mobile.
    4. largest enterprise ecosystem
    5. complete CRM
    6. API (Application Programming Interface): 
        2. it’s essentially a contract between two pieces of software, allowing them to connect to each other and exchange information (without knowing any of the inner details of how they work.)
        1. he API name is a unique identifier that the platform uses to determine what data or metadata you are trying to access.
8. Setup： 
    1. Setup consists of a tab bar, a navigational sidebar, and a main window. 
    2. Setup Search uses type-ahead functionality to help you jump quickly to the item you want. advanced search
    3. If you’re not at your desk and you need to get your admin duties on, you can take Setup on the go with the SalesforceA mobile app.
        1. Username
        2. Super secret password
        3. ?? Correct instance: You can connect to a sandbox environment for testing purposes, or a custom domain if configured for your org
    4. trust.salesforce : The Recent System Status section shows information from trust.salesforce.com about your instance's system performance over the last 24 hours. 
9. develop your AppExchange strategy: all from- https://trailhead.salesforce.com/trails/force_com_admin_beginner/modules/starting_force_com/units/starting_developer_console 
    1. Identify the departments using Salesforce (either now or in the future). These are your primary stakeholders for AppExchange app installations.
    2. Research AppExchange apps for the business cases provided by your stakeholders. Interview your stakeholders thoroughly to gather the requirements needed to select and evaluate the apps.
        1. What business problem are you trying to solve?
        2. What are your main pain points at present?
        3. How many users?
        4. What is your budget?
        5. What is your timeline?
    1. Download apps into a sandbox or Developer Edition org for preview and testing. An important step is to ensure that the app you’re installing doesn’t interfere with any customizations you’ve done or other apps you’ve already installed.
        2. Sandboxes are copies of your organization in a separate environment. They are used for development and testing： https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=create_test_instance.htm&language=en_US&type=0 4 types: developer sandbox, dev pro sandbox(lager tata sets), partial copy sandbox(includes a sample of your production org’s data as defined by a sandbox template), full sandbox(support performance testing, load testing, and staging,  a replica of your production org, including all data, But the length of the refresh interval makes it difficult to use Full sandboxes for development.) **We recommend that you apply a sandbox template so that your sandbox contains only the records that you need for testing or other tasks.**
    4. Evaluate your choices. Consider budget, app functionality, and any feature gaps. Consider inviting your stakeholders into the sandbox or Developer Edition org to preview the app functionality, or invite your stakeholders to a demo of the app.
    5. Execute and document. Prepare your users for the change in user experience (if any), including providing training or documentation as needed
10. Install from AppExchange:
    1. In general, an AppExchange best practice is to install first in a sandbox or Developer Edition org. A few considerations:
        1. Some of the packages come bundled with custom fields, objects, Apex classes, and more.
        2. All of these customizations have names, which may conflict with existing names in your org.
    2. give permissions to admins only, all users, or specific profiles
    3. The AppExchange is a complete marketplace offering cloud-computing applications and consulting services

##### 2. Data Modeling
1. There are two types of objects.
    1. Standard Objects—These are objects included with Salesforce, by default, for example the objects used to store data in standard tabs such as accounts, contacts, or opportunities.
    2. Custom Objects—These are new objects you create to store information unique to your organization. Custom objects extend the functionality that standard objects provide. **For example, if you’re building an app to track product inventory, you can create custom objects called Merchandise and Invoices, as shown in the figure below.**
2. Objects can have relationship fields that define how records in one object relate to records in another object. These fields play the same role as primary and foreign keys in a database
3.  All attributes of an object are described with metadata, making it easy to create and modify records either through a visual interface or programmatically.
6. Fields
    1. Identity Field：
        - called ID
        - manages the identity data in every record
        - as a result you can view every record (across all objects) by simply using a URL of the above form
        - eg: https://yourInstance.salesforce.com/0015000000Gv7qJ
    2. System Fields
        - All objects have a number of read-only system fields automatically associated with them. eg: CreatedDate, LastModifiedById
    3. Name Fields:
        -  required field that has a special place in the life of the object
        -  It's not required to be a unique identifier, but it is supposed to be the primary way users distinguish one record from another
        - A name can be one of two types: a text string or an auto-number field.
            - auto-number field, you must specify the format for the field and the starting number. Auto number fields increment by one each time a record is created.
    4. Custom Fields: . All fields in an object must be defined as a particular data type. more here: https://www.adminhero.com/a-primer-on-salesforce-fields-and-relationships/
    5. Relationship Fields: stores the ID of the parent record in a relationship
        1. Lookup: Lookup relationships can be used to create one-to-one and one-to-many relationships.
        2. Master-Detail: 
            - Master-detail relationships can be used whenever there is a tight binding between two objects.
            - They can also be used to create many-many relationships.
            - The master object in a master-detail relationship can also contain rollup summary fields : store values aggregated from the child records in the relationship
    5. Other Features of Objects
        1. formulas (rich expression ) - set up validation rules,create workflow rule criteria
        2. validation
        3. triggers, written in the Apex language
        4. Labels—Every object and record has a label and can include a description, for help, which is automatically included in the user interface.
        5. Notes and attachments
        6. Track Field History


##### 04/14 Security
advantages workflow has compared to process
single task --  workflow, one object

preview
1. master-detail, change one object that will impact another: 2examples: 1. master rollup summary field, child amount changes, this field of master changes; 2. delete master, child gone
2. advantage of having dashboard: give you a very quick glance on what is going on 

main topic:
1. part all users in specific groups, defined in profile 
2. profile is a field? some value i can choose is account,case,...??
3. public r/w, public r/only, private ..
4. lock down on object level
5. user profile, standard profile can not be changed, if our demand is similar like standard setting, we make some changes by permission set, if we have totally different demand, we create a new profile
6. share
7. record type: ..account, for each record type, we can have a business layout. subject to profile








































## you know

1. resist the temptation to think ...
2. the golden rule is to always do ...
3. give you more granular control of customization
4. or vice versa
5. If you see a spinning wheel, your .. is still being processed
6. Speed up the onboarding process with a
7. Time off tracking
8. Assign work to queues and use Chatter to collaborate on requests, and track everything in
9. at an aggregate level.
10. versatile
11.  a user’s Salesforce account may have been compromised
12. find root cause
13. Important for both security tracking purposes and adoption
14. Sandboxes are a vital tool for administrators and developers and a worthwhile investment;
15. view all future jobs, including Apex jobs, dashboard refreshes, and reporting snapshots.
16. These are your primary stakeholders for 。。。
17. What are your main pain points at present?
18. What is your budget/timeline?
19. Before you can make your own app or service publicly available to potential customers,
20. paint yourself in to corner with that strategy
21. Remember before you roll out a new app get your users ready. To do that you will want to message out the change that is coming to the relevant users and when it will be coming.
22. Each table comprises a number of columns
23. square bracket
24. rollup  summary




